docs/docs/self-host/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Self-Hosting GrowthBook
description: Learn how to set a self-hosted version of GrowthBook
id: index
slug: /self-host
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Self Hosting GrowthBook

GrowthBook consists of a NextJS front-end, an ExpressJS API, and a Python stats engine. Everything is bundled together in a single [Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/r/growthbook/growthbook).

In addition to the app itself, you will also need a MongoDB instance to store login credentials, cached experiment results, and metadata.

:::tip
Don't want to install or host the app yourself? <a href="https://app.growthbook.io">GrowthBook Cloud</a> is a fully managed
version that's free to get started.
:::

## Installation

You can use **docker-compose** to get started quickly:

```yml
# docker-compose.yml
version: "3"
services:
  mongo:
    image: "mongo:latest"
    environment:
      - MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME=root
      - MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD=password
    volumes:
      - mongodata:/data/db
  growthbook:
    image: "growthbook/growthbook:latest"
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
      - "3100:3100"
    depends_on:
      - mongo
    environment:
      - MONGODB_URI=mongodb://root:password@mongo:27017/growthbook?authSource=admin
    volumes:
      - uploads:/usr/local/src/app/packages/back-end/uploads
volumes:
  uploads:
  mongodata:
```

Then, just run `docker-compose up -d` to start everything and view the app at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

:::caution
The use of the mongo image within the docker-compose.yml is meant to quickly get a dev or staging environment up and running.
For production you may want to use a more scalable and stable solution (ie. AWS DocumentDB, Google Cloud MongoDB Atlas, Azure Cosmos DB for Mongo, etc.)
You may also want to have a [Growthbook Proxy](/self-host/proxy) running as well for speed, scalability, security, and real-time feature rollouts.
:::

## Docker Tags

Builds are published automatically from the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/growthbook/growthbook) main branch. The most recent commit is tagged with `latest`.

GitHub Releases are also tagged using SemVer (e.g. `0.2.1`).

If you need to reference the image for a specific git commit for any reason, you can use the git shorthash tag (e.g. `git-41278e9`).

## Updating to Latest

If you are using docker-compose, and assuming you specify the growthbook container with `:latest`, you can update with:

```bash
docker-compose pull growthbook
docker-compose stop growthbook
docker-compose up -d growthbook
```

## Kubernetes (Helm) Installation

:::tip
Our official Helm chart is available on [Artifact Hub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/one-acre-fund/growthbook) to deploy GrowthBook on Kubernetes:
- For production and scalable cloud-native deployments, use GCP (GKE) or AWS (EKS).
- For local testing and development, use Minikube.
:::

### Minimal Prerequisites

Before you apply the example values files, make sure you complete these minimal prerequisites for your environment:

**Kubernetes Cluster Access**

Ensure you have access to a running Kubernetes cluster ([Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/?arch=%2Fmacos%2Farm64%2Fstable%2Fbinary+download), [GKE](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine?hl=en), or [EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/)) with permissions to deploy workloads and required controllers (such as load balancer controllers) installed. You'll need `kubectl` and the GrowthBook Helm chart, which is available on [Artifact Hub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/one-acre-fund/growthbook).

**Authentication Secrets**

Generate and Store JWT and encryption secrets for backend authentication and encryption:

```bash
openssl rand -hex 32  # Run twice, once for each secret
```

Store them as Kubernetes secrets in the same namespace as the one where the chart will be installed (replace the values with your generated secrets):

```bash
kubectl create secret generic jwt-secret \
  --from-literal=jwt-secret=YOUR_JWT_SECRET
kubectl create secret generic encryption-key \
  --from-literal=encryption-key=YOUR_ENCRYPTION_KEY
```

Reference these secrets in your environment specific values file.

**DNS Resolution for Testing**

For quick testing without configuring DNS, you can use public DNS services that automatically resolve to your cluster's ingress IP.

Services like `sslip.io` and `traefik.me` provide wildcard DNS that resolves based on the IP address in the hostname:
- `sslip.io`: If your ingress IP is `35.X.X.X`, then `myapp.35.X.X.X.sslip.io` resolves to `35.X.X.X`
- `traefik.me`: Similar functionality but with dashes, e.g., `myapp.35-X-X-X.traefik.me`

These services are useful for:
- Local development with Minikube
- Quick testing in cloud environments before setting up proper DNS
- Temporary deployments or demos

The example values files below use `sslip.io` for demonstration purposes. For production, you should use proper DNS records in your cloud provider.

**Environment Configuration**

In the next step you will need to decide on which environment to deploy to and configure your values files accordingly before installation.

### Environment-Specific Values

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="aws" label="AWS (EKS)">
    <div>
      <div className="admonition note">
        <p>
          <strong>Default hostnames below use sslip.io for quick testing.</strong><br/>
          For production, use a domain registered in your cloud provider's DNS (e.g., Route53 for AWS).<br/>
          The hostnames in the values file must match the domain you intend to use for Ingress.<br/>
          <strong>Replace INGRESS_IP with the external IP assigned to your Ingress object.</strong>
        </p>
      </div>
      <details>
        <summary>Minimal values-aws.yaml</summary>

```yaml
global:
  env:
    - name: APP_ORIGIN
      # For testing only! Replace with your real domain for production.
      value: http://growthbook.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io

frontend:
  service:
    name: frontend
    port: 3000
    targetPort: 3000
  env:
    - name: API_HOST
      # For testing only! Replace with your real domain for production.
      value: http://api.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io

backend:
  mongodbEnabled: true
  service:
    name: backend
    port: 3100
    targetPort: 3100
  env:
    - name: JWT_SECRET
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: jwt-secret
          key: jwt-secret
    - name: ENCRYPTION_KEY
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: encryption-key
          key: encryption-key
    - name: UPLOAD_METHOD
      value: s3
    # ===== S3 uploads configuration =====
    - name: S3_BUCKET
      value: "BUCKET_NAME"
    # default: us-east-1
    - name: S3_REGION
      value: "S3_REGION"
    # default: https://${S3_BUCKET}.s3.amazonaws.com/
    - name: S3_DOMAIN
      value: "https://${S3_BUCKET}.s3.${S3_REGION}.amazonaws.com/"

mongodb:
  enabled: true

ingress:
  enabled: true
  className: "alb"
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: alb
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/target-type: ip
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/scheme: internet-facing
  hosts:
    - host: growthbook.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io  # For testing only! Replace for production.
      paths:
        - path: /*
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          service: frontend
    - host: api.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io  # For testing only! Replace for production.
      paths:
        - path: /*
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          service: backend
  tls: []
```
      </details>
      Installation:
      ```bash
      helm install growthbook growthbook/growthbook -f values-aws.yaml
      ```
      <div className="admonition info">
        <p>
          <strong>After Install: Update Hostnames</strong><br/>
          1. Wait for your Ingress object to be assigned an external IP. This might take anywhere from 3 to 5 minutes.<br/>
          2. Update your <code>values-aws.yaml</code> file to use this IP in all <code>sslip.io</code> hostnames.<br/>
          3. Run <code>helm upgrade --install growthbook growthbook/growthbook -f values-aws.yaml</code> to apply the change.<br/>
        </p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="gcp" label="GCP">
    <div>
      <div className="admonition note">
        <p>
          <strong>Default hostnames below use sslip.io for quick testing.</strong><br/>
          For production, use a domain registered in your cloud provider's DNS (e.g., Cloud DNS for GCP).<br/>
          The hostnames in the values file must match the domain you intend to use for Ingress.<br/>
          <strong>Replace INGRESS_IP with the external IP assigned to your Ingress object.</strong>
        </p>
      </div>
      <details>
        <summary>Minimal values-gcp.yaml</summary>

```yaml
global:
  env:
    - name: APP_ORIGIN
      # For testing only! Replace with your real domain for production.
      value: http://growthbook.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io

frontend:
  service:
    annotations:
      cloud.google.com/neg: '{"ingress": true}'
    name: frontend
    port: 3000
    targetPort: 3000
  env:
    - name: API_HOST
      # For testing only! Replace with your real domain for production.
      value: http://api.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io

backend:
  mongodbEnabled: true
  volumeClaim:
    enabled: false
  service:
    annotations:
      cloud.google.com/neg: '{"ingress": true}'
    name: backend
    port: 3100
    targetPort: 3100
  env:
    - name: JWT_SECRET
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: jwt-secret
          key: jwt-secret
    - name: ENCRYPTION_KEY
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: encryption-key
          key: encryption-key
    - name: UPLOAD_METHOD
      value: google-cloud
    - name: GCS_BUCKET_NAME
      value: "BUCKET_NAME"
    - name: GCS_DOMAIN
      value: "https://storage.googleapis.com/BUCKET_NAME/"

mongodb:
  enabled: true

ingress:
  enabled: true
  className: "gce"
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: gce
  hosts:
    - host: growthbook.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io  # For testing only! Replace for production.
      paths:
        - path: /*
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          backend:
            service:
              name: frontend
              port:
                number: 3000
    - host: api.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io  # For testing only! Replace for production.
      paths:
        - path: /*
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          backend:
            service:
              name: backend
              port:
                number: 3100
  tls: []
```
      </details>
      Installation:
      ```bash
      helm install growthbook growthbook/growthbook -f values-gcp.yaml
      ```
      <div className="admonition info">
        <p>
          <strong>After Install: Update Hostnames</strong><br/>
          1. Wait for your Ingress object to be assigned an external IP.<br/>
          2. Update your <code>values-gcp.yaml</code> file to use this IP in all <code>sslip.io</code> hostnames.<br/>
          3. Run <code>helm upgrade --install growthbook growthbook/growthbook -f values-gcp.yaml</code> to apply the change.<br/>
        </p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="minikube" label="Minikube">
    <div>
      <div className="admonition note">
        <p>
          Minikube is for local testing and development only, not for production.<br/>
          Default hostnames below use sslip.io for quick testing.<br/>
          Replace <code>MINIKUBE-IP</code> with the output of <code>minikube ip</code>.
        </p>
      </div>

      <div className="admonition tip">
          <p>
              <strong>Tip: Local TLS with mkcert</strong><br/>
              For a more realistic development setup, you can use <a href="https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert">mkcert</a> to issue locally-trusted TLS certificates within Minikube. This allows you to work with HTTPS without browser warnings.
          </p>
          <details>
            <summary>Click for mkcert setup instructions</summary>
            <div>

**Prerequisites**

Before starting the setup, make sure you have Minikube installed and running. You'll also need `kubectl` and `helm` available on your system.

**Get Your Minikube IP**

Start Minikube if it's not already running:

```bash
minikube start
```

Get your Minikube IP address:

```bash
minikube ip
```

Make note of this IP address - you'll need to replace all instances of `${MINIKUBE_IP}` in the values file with this actual IP.

**Enable NGINX Ingress Controller**

The setup requires NGINX Ingress Controller. Enable it in Minikube:

```bash
minikube addons enable ingress
```

**Install cert-manager**

Install cert-manager to manage TLS certificates in your cluster:

```bash
# Create the namespace
kubectl create namespace cert-manager

# Install cert-manager using the official manifest
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.15.0/cert-manager.yaml

# Wait for cert-manager pods to be ready
kubectl get pods -n cert-manager --watch
```

**Install mkcert**

Install `mkcert` on your local machine. On macOS, you can use Homebrew:

```bash
brew install mkcert
```

For other operating systems, follow the [mkcert installation instructions](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert#installation).

Install the local CA in your system trust store:

```bash
mkcert -install
```

**Create CA Secret and ClusterIssuer**

Create a Kubernetes secret containing your local CA:

```bash
kubectl create secret tls mkcert-ca-key-pair \
  --key "$(mkcert -CAROOT)"/rootCA-key.pem \
  --cert "$(mkcert -CAROOT)"/rootCA.pem \
  -n cert-manager
```

Create a ClusterIssuer that will use this CA to issue certificates:

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: mkcert
spec:
  ca:
    secretName: mkcert-ca-key-pair
EOF
```

**Important Note About Annotations**

In the values file, make sure you're using the correct issuer annotation. For a ClusterIssuer (which we created above), use:

```yaml
cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: mkcert
```

Do not use `cert-manager.io/issuer: mkcert` as that's for namespace-scoped issuers.

---

Now you can proceed with deploying GrowthBook using the values file below:

            </div>
          </details>
      </div>

      <details>
        <summary>Minimal values-minikube.yaml (with TLS)</summary>

```yaml
global:
  security:
    allowInsecureImages: true
  env:
    # Replace ${MINIKUBE-IP} with the output of `minikube ip`
    - name: APP_ORIGIN
      value: https://growthbook.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io

frontend:
  service:
    name: frontend
    port: 3000
    targetPort: 3000
  env:
    # Replace ${MINIKUBE-IP} with the output of `minikube ip`
    - name: API_HOST
      value: https://api.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io

backend:
  mongodbEnabled: true
  volumeClaim:
    enabled: true
  service:
    name: backend
    port: 3100
    targetPort: 3100
  env:
    - name: JWT_SECRET
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: jwt-secret
          key: jwt-secret
    - name: ENCRYPTION_KEY
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: encryption-key
          key: encryption-key
    - name: UPLOAD_METHOD
      value: local

mongodb:
  enabled: true
  persistence:
    enabled: true
  # Only needed if running Minikube on Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3)
  # image:
  #   registry: docker.io
  #   repository: dlavrenuek/bitnami-mongodb-arm
  #   tag: 7.0.15

ingress:
  className: "nginx"
  annotations:
    # This tells cert-manager to use our mkcert issuer
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: mkcert
  enabled: true
  hosts:
    - host: growthbook.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io
      paths:
        - path: /
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          service: frontend
    - host: api.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io
      paths:
        - path: /
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          service: backend
  tls:
    - secretName: growthbook-tls
      hosts:
        - growthbook.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io
        - api.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io
```
      </details>
      Installation:
      ```bash
      helm install growthbook growthbook/growthbook -f values-minikube.yaml
      ```
    </div>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Accessing GrowthBook

After deploying with Helm, access GrowthBook using the Ingress hostnames you configured in your values file:

- **Minikube:**
  - Run `minikube tunnel` in a separate terminal to expose the Ingress IP to your host.
  - Frontend: `https://growthbook.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io`
  - Backend/API: `https://api.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io`
  - (Replace `${MINIKUBE-IP}` with the output of `minikube ip`)

- **AWS & GCP**
  - Use the hostname you set in your values file
  - Check your Ingress/ALB resource for the external DNS name if using AWS Load Balancer Controller or domain if using a cloud-managed Ingress

> Open the frontend URL in your browser to start using GrowthBook. The backend/API URL is used by the frontend and for API access.

### Troubleshooting

If something isn't working as expected, use these commands to check the status of your resources:

- List all pods and their status:
  ```bash
  kubectl get pods -A
  ```
- Describe a specific pod (replace `POD_NAME` and `NAMESPACE`):
  ```bash
  kubectl describe pod POD_NAME -n NAMESPACE
  ```
- Check the status of your services:
  ```bash
  kubectl get svc -A
  ```
- Inspect your Ingress resources:
  ```bash
  kubectl get ingress -A
  kubectl describe ingress INGRESS_NAME -n NAMESPACE
  ```

Commit message:

updated the first step and added an info box

docs/docs/self-host/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Self-Hosting GrowthBook
description: Learn how to set a self-hosted version of GrowthBook
id: index
slug: /self-host
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Self Hosting GrowthBook

GrowthBook consists of a NextJS front-end, an ExpressJS API, and a Python stats engine. Everything is bundled together in a single [Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/r/growthbook/growthbook).

In addition to the app itself, you will also need a MongoDB instance to store login credentials, cached experiment results, and metadata.

:::tip
Don't want to install or host the app yourself? <a href="https://app.growthbook.io">GrowthBook Cloud</a> is a fully managed
version that's free to get started.
:::

## Installation

You can use **docker-compose** to get started quickly:

```yml
# docker-compose.yml
version: "3"
services:
  mongo:
    image: "mongo:latest"
    environment:
      - MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME=root
      - MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD=password
    volumes:
      - mongodata:/data/db
  growthbook:
    image: "growthbook/growthbook:latest"
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
      - "3100:3100"
    depends_on:
      - mongo
    environment:
      - MONGODB_URI=mongodb://root:password@mongo:27017/growthbook?authSource=admin
    volumes:
      - uploads:/usr/local/src/app/packages/back-end/uploads
volumes:
  uploads:
  mongodata:
```

Then, just run `docker-compose up -d` to start everything and view the app at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

:::caution
The use of the mongo image within the docker-compose.yml is meant to quickly get a dev or staging environment up and running.
For production you may want to use a more scalable and stable solution (ie. AWS DocumentDB, Google Cloud MongoDB Atlas, Azure Cosmos DB for Mongo, etc.)
You may also want to have a [Growthbook Proxy](/self-host/proxy) running as well for speed, scalability, security, and real-time feature rollouts.
:::

## Docker Tags

Builds are published automatically from the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/growthbook/growthbook) main branch. The most recent commit is tagged with `latest`.

GitHub Releases are also tagged using SemVer (e.g. `0.2.1`).

If you need to reference the image for a specific git commit for any reason, you can use the git shorthash tag (e.g. `git-41278e9`).

## Updating to Latest

If you are using docker-compose, and assuming you specify the growthbook container with `:latest`, you can update with:

```bash
docker-compose pull growthbook
docker-compose stop growthbook
docker-compose up -d growthbook
```

## Kubernetes (Helm) Installation

:::tip
Our official Helm chart is available on [Artifact Hub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/one-acre-fund/growthbook) to deploy GrowthBook on Kubernetes:
- For production and scalable cloud-native deployments, use GCP (GKE) or AWS (EKS).
- For local testing and development, use Minikube.
:::

### Add the Helm Repository

First, add the GrowthBook Helm repository to your local Helm installation:

```bash
helm repo add growthbook oci://ghcr.io/growthbook/charts/growhtbook
helm repo update
```

### Minimal Prerequisites

Before you apply the example values files, make sure you complete these minimal prerequisites for your environment:

**Kubernetes Cluster Access**

Ensure you have access to a running Kubernetes cluster ([Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/?arch=%2Fmacos%2Farm64%2Fstable%2Fbinary+download), [GKE](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine?hl=en), or [EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/)) with permissions to deploy workloads and required controllers (such as load balancer controllers) installed. You'll need `kubectl` and the GrowthBook Helm chart, which is available on [Artifact Hub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/one-acre-fund/growthbook).

**Authentication Secrets**

Generate and Store JWT and encryption secrets for backend authentication and encryption:

```bash
openssl rand -hex 32  # Run twice, once for each secret
```

Store them as Kubernetes secrets in the same namespace as the one where the chart will be installed (replace the values with your generated secrets):

```bash
kubectl create secret generic jwt-secret \
  --from-literal=jwt-secret=YOUR_JWT_SECRET
kubectl create secret generic encryption-key \
  --from-literal=encryption-key=YOUR_ENCRYPTION_KEY
```

Reference these secrets in your environment specific values file.

**DNS Resolution for Testing**

For quick testing without configuring DNS, you can use public DNS services that automatically resolve to your cluster's ingress IP.

Services like `sslip.io` and `traefik.me` provide wildcard DNS that resolves based on the IP address in the hostname:
- `sslip.io`: If your ingress IP is `35.X.X.X`, then `myapp.35.X.X.X.sslip.io` resolves to `35.X.X.X`
- `traefik.me`: Similar functionality but with dashes, e.g., `myapp.35-X-X-X.traefik.me`

These services are useful for:
- Local development with Minikube
- Quick testing in cloud environments before setting up proper DNS
- Temporary deployments or demos

The example values files below use `sslip.io` for demonstration purposes. For production, you should use proper DNS records in your cloud provider.

**Environment Configuration**

In the next step you will need to decide on which environment to deploy to and configure your values files accordingly before installation.

:::info
The examples below provide minimal configurations to get you started quickly. For a complete list of all available configuration options and advanced customization, refer to the [full values.yaml file](https://github.com/growthbook/growthbook/tree/main/charts/growthbook/values.yaml) in our repository.
:::

### Environment-Specific Values

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="aws" label="AWS (EKS)">
    <div>
      <div className="admonition note">
        <p>
          <strong>Default hostnames below use sslip.io for quick testing.</strong><br/>
          For production, use a domain registered in your cloud provider's DNS (e.g., Route53 for AWS).<br/>
          The hostnames in the values file must match the domain you intend to use for Ingress.<br/>
          <strong>Replace INGRESS_IP with the external IP assigned to your Ingress object.</strong>
        </p>
      </div>
      <details>
        <summary>Minimal values-aws.yaml</summary>

```yaml
global:
  env:
    - name: APP_ORIGIN
      # For testing only! Replace with your real domain for production.
      value: http://growthbook.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io

frontend:
  service:
    name: frontend
    port: 3000
    targetPort: 3000
  env:
    - name: API_HOST
      # For testing only! Replace with your real domain for production.
      value: http://api.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io

backend:
  mongodbEnabled: true
  service:
    name: backend
    port: 3100
    targetPort: 3100
  env:
    - name: JWT_SECRET
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: jwt-secret
          key: jwt-secret
    - name: ENCRYPTION_KEY
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: encryption-key
          key: encryption-key
    - name: UPLOAD_METHOD
      value: s3
    # ===== S3 uploads configuration =====
    - name: S3_BUCKET
      value: "BUCKET_NAME"
    # default: us-east-1
    - name: S3_REGION
      value: "S3_REGION"
    # default: https://${S3_BUCKET}.s3.amazonaws.com/
    - name: S3_DOMAIN
      value: "https://${S3_BUCKET}.s3.${S3_REGION}.amazonaws.com/"

mongodb:
  enabled: true

ingress:
  enabled: true
  className: "alb"
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: alb
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/target-type: ip
    alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/scheme: internet-facing
  hosts:
    - host: growthbook.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io  # For testing only! Replace for production.
      paths:
        - path: /*
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          service: frontend
    - host: api.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io  # For testing only! Replace for production.
      paths:
        - path: /*
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          service: backend
  tls: []
```
      </details>
      Installation:
      ```bash
      helm install growthbook growthbook/growthbook -f values-aws.yaml
      ```
      <div className="admonition info">
        <p>
          <strong>After Install: Update Hostnames</strong><br/>
          1. Wait for your Ingress object to be assigned an external IP. This might take anywhere from 3 to 5 minutes.<br/>
          2. Update your <code>values-aws.yaml</code> file to use this IP in all <code>sslip.io</code> hostnames.<br/>
          3. Run <code>helm upgrade --install growthbook growthbook/growthbook -f values-aws.yaml</code> to apply the change.<br/>
        </p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="gcp" label="GCP">
    <div>
      <div className="admonition note">
        <p>
          <strong>Default hostnames below use sslip.io for quick testing.</strong><br/>
          For production, use a domain registered in your cloud provider's DNS (e.g., Cloud DNS for GCP).<br/>
          The hostnames in the values file must match the domain you intend to use for Ingress.<br/>
          <strong>Replace INGRESS_IP with the external IP assigned to your Ingress object.</strong>
        </p>
      </div>
      <details>
        <summary>Minimal values-gcp.yaml</summary>

```yaml
global:
  env:
    - name: APP_ORIGIN
      # For testing only! Replace with your real domain for production.
      value: http://growthbook.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io

frontend:
  service:
    annotations:
      cloud.google.com/neg: '{"ingress": true}'
    name: frontend
    port: 3000
    targetPort: 3000
  env:
    - name: API_HOST
      # For testing only! Replace with your real domain for production.
      value: http://api.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io

backend:
  mongodbEnabled: true
  volumeClaim:
    enabled: false
  service:
    annotations:
      cloud.google.com/neg: '{"ingress": true}'
    name: backend
    port: 3100
    targetPort: 3100
  env:
    - name: JWT_SECRET
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: jwt-secret
          key: jwt-secret
    - name: ENCRYPTION_KEY
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: encryption-key
          key: encryption-key
    - name: UPLOAD_METHOD
      value: google-cloud
    - name: GCS_BUCKET_NAME
      value: "BUCKET_NAME"
    - name: GCS_DOMAIN
      value: "https://storage.googleapis.com/BUCKET_NAME/"

mongodb:
  enabled: true

ingress:
  enabled: true
  className: "gce"
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: gce
  hosts:
    - host: growthbook.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io  # For testing only! Replace for production.
      paths:
        - path: /*
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          backend:
            service:
              name: frontend
              port:
                number: 3000
    - host: api.<INGRESS_IP>.sslip.io  # For testing only! Replace for production.
      paths:
        - path: /*
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          backend:
            service:
              name: backend
              port:
                number: 3100
  tls: []
```
      </details>
      Installation:
      ```bash
      helm install growthbook growthbook/growthbook -f values-gcp.yaml
      ```
      <div className="admonition info">
        <p>
          <strong>After Install: Update Hostnames</strong><br/>
          1. Wait for your Ingress object to be assigned an external IP.<br/>
          2. Update your <code>values-gcp.yaml</code> file to use this IP in all <code>sslip.io</code> hostnames.<br/>
          3. Run <code>helm upgrade --install growthbook growthbook/growthbook -f values-gcp.yaml</code> to apply the change.<br/>
        </p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="minikube" label="Minikube">
    <div>
      <div className="admonition note">
        <p>
          Minikube is for local testing and development only, not for production.<br/>
          Default hostnames below use sslip.io for quick testing.<br/>
          Replace <code>MINIKUBE-IP</code> with the output of <code>minikube ip</code>.
        </p>
      </div>

      <div className="admonition tip">
          <p>
              <strong>Tip: Local TLS with mkcert</strong><br/>
              For a more realistic development setup, you can use <a href="https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert">mkcert</a> to issue locally-trusted TLS certificates within Minikube. This allows you to work with HTTPS without browser warnings.
          </p>
          <details>
            <summary>Click for mkcert setup instructions</summary>
            <div>

**Prerequisites**

Before starting the setup, make sure you have Minikube installed and running. You'll also need `kubectl` and `helm` available on your system.

**Get Your Minikube IP**

Start Minikube if it's not already running:

```bash
minikube start
```

Get your Minikube IP address:

```bash
minikube ip
```

Make note of this IP address - you'll need to replace all instances of `${MINIKUBE_IP}` in the values file with this actual IP.

**Enable NGINX Ingress Controller**

The setup requires NGINX Ingress Controller. Enable it in Minikube:

```bash
minikube addons enable ingress
```

**Install cert-manager**

Install cert-manager to manage TLS certificates in your cluster:

```bash
# Create the namespace
kubectl create namespace cert-manager

# Install cert-manager using the official manifest
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.15.0/cert-manager.yaml

# Wait for cert-manager pods to be ready
kubectl get pods -n cert-manager --watch
```

**Install mkcert**

Install `mkcert` on your local machine. On macOS, you can use Homebrew:

```bash
brew install mkcert
```

For other operating systems, follow the [mkcert installation instructions](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert#installation).

Install the local CA in your system trust store:

```bash
mkcert -install
```

**Create CA Secret and ClusterIssuer**

Create a Kubernetes secret containing your local CA:

```bash
kubectl create secret tls mkcert-ca-key-pair \
  --key "$(mkcert -CAROOT)"/rootCA-key.pem \
  --cert "$(mkcert -CAROOT)"/rootCA.pem \
  -n cert-manager
```

Create a ClusterIssuer that will use this CA to issue certificates:

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: mkcert
spec:
  ca:
    secretName: mkcert-ca-key-pair
EOF
```

**Important Note About Annotations**

In the values file, make sure you're using the correct issuer annotation. For a ClusterIssuer (which we created above), use:

```yaml
cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: mkcert
```

Do not use `cert-manager.io/issuer: mkcert` as that's for namespace-scoped issuers.

---

Now you can proceed with deploying GrowthBook using the values file below:

            </div>
          </details>
      </div>

      <details>
        <summary>Minimal values-minikube.yaml (with TLS)</summary>

```yaml
global:
  security:
    allowInsecureImages: true
  env:
    # Replace ${MINIKUBE-IP} with the output of `minikube ip`
    - name: APP_ORIGIN
      value: https://growthbook.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io

frontend:
  service:
    name: frontend
    port: 3000
    targetPort: 3000
  env:
    # Replace ${MINIKUBE-IP} with the output of `minikube ip`
    - name: API_HOST
      value: https://api.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io

backend:
  mongodbEnabled: true
  volumeClaim:
    enabled: true
  service:
    name: backend
    port: 3100
    targetPort: 3100
  env:
    - name: JWT_SECRET
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: jwt-secret
          key: jwt-secret
    - name: ENCRYPTION_KEY
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: encryption-key
          key: encryption-key
    - name: UPLOAD_METHOD
      value: local

mongodb:
  enabled: true
  persistence:
    enabled: true
  # Only needed if running Minikube on Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3)
  # image:
  #   registry: docker.io
  #   repository: dlavrenuek/bitnami-mongodb-arm
  #   tag: 7.0.15

ingress:
  className: "nginx"
  annotations:
    # This tells cert-manager to use our mkcert issuer
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: mkcert
  enabled: true
  hosts:
    - host: growthbook.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io
      paths:
        - path: /
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          service: frontend
    - host: api.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io
      paths:
        - path: /
          pathType: ImplementationSpecific
          service: backend
  tls:
    - secretName: growthbook-tls
      hosts:
        - growthbook.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io
        - api.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io
```
      </details>
      Installation:
      ```bash
      helm install growthbook growthbook/growthbook -f values-minikube.yaml
      ```
    </div>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Accessing GrowthBook

After deploying with Helm, access GrowthBook using the Ingress hostnames you configured in your values file:

- **Minikube:**
  - Run `minikube tunnel` in a separate terminal to expose the Ingress IP to your host.
  - Frontend: `https://growthbook.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io`
  - Backend/API: `https://api.${MINIKUBE-IP}.sslip.io`
  - (Replace `${MINIKUBE-IP}` with the output of `minikube ip`)

- **AWS & GCP**
  - Use the hostname you set in your values file
  - Check your Ingress/ALB resource for the external DNS name if using AWS Load Balancer Controller or domain if using a cloud-managed Ingress

> Open the frontend URL in your browser to start using GrowthBook. The backend/API URL is used by the frontend and for API access.

### Troubleshooting

If something isn't working as expected, use these commands to check the status of your resources:

- List all pods and their status:
  ```bash
  kubectl get pods -A
  ```
- Describe a specific pod (replace `POD_NAME` and `NAMESPACE`):
  ```bash
  kubectl describe pod POD_NAME -n NAMESPACE
  ```
- Check the status of your services:
  ```bash
  kubectl get svc -A
  ```
- Inspect your Ingress resources:
  ```bash
  kubectl get ingress -A
  kubectl describe ingress INGRESS_NAME -n NAMESPACE
  ```
